# Ford
https://www.ford-trucks.com/forums/1504795-bypass-oil-filter-whos-done-it.html

Favorite:
>IMHO (you know what folks say about opinions, they're like a certain part of the body, everyone's got one) mine is: keeping your oil clean is the single most important thing you can do to extend the life of your engine. Change the oil when the truck tells you to, stick your index finger in the old oil and rub it against your thumb - you can feel the grit in it (remember, still my opinion) - that cannot be good. Stick one of those Filtermags on the filter and hack the filter open before you remove the Filtermag and look at the metal that thing grabbed - yes, it's on the "dirty side" of the oil, but there are circumstances where the "stock" filter is by-passed to keep the oil flowing - both of these cannot be good. What everyone is saying about not doing it is absolutely is based on fact, not opinion. However, as I look back at the vehicles that I've owned - 180,000 on a 1982 5.0, 290,000 on a 1992 3.8 and 160,000 on a 2004 5.4 (all were still running when I traded them in) I think I'm going to keep doing what I did to get those engines to the milage I got them to, keeping the oil as clean and as fresh as I possibly can. Was it the sole purpose for getting that mileage out of them? Who knows, but when my 3.8 toasted a head gasket and the mechanic said to me "what are you doing to keep the inside of this engine clean? It's the cleanest engine I've seen and if it were a typical 3.8 I would tell you to replace it" I knew I was doing something right. I'm going to do the same with my truck - I went with the Insane Diesel Extreme Oil Filter. Between the research I've done, what my eyes saw when I saw the inside of an oil filter with a Filtermag, how my oil felt after my last change and my experience, there was never a doubt in my mind what I was going to do
